---
layout: problem
title: Creating Folders
permalink: /problems/1.2/
section: Basics and Printing
subsection: Filesystem
pbd: false
---
Lets go ahead and create some folders on our machine.

## Linux Terminal
Open the Terminal. You will start in your home directory `~`. 
<pre class="terminal">
(trusty)robuntu@localhost:~$ 
</pre>
That space between the `:` and the `$` is your **current working directory**.
For the sake of space, I will leave out the `(trusty)robuntu@localhost:` part and only show the 
current working directory (cwd). Like this:
<pre class="terminal">
~$ 
</pre>

## List `ls`
We want to be able to see what the cwd contains. To do this, we use the `ls` command.
<pre class="terminal">
~$ <kbd>ls</kbd>
Android   Downloads             Pictures
Desktop   IntelliJIDEAProjects  Sketchbook
</pre>

## Make Directory `mkdir`
Next, we want to make a folder specifically for your course-work.
In the terminal, use the `mkdir` command followed by **your** last name to create a folder.
We will then use `ls` to confirm that the directory was created.
<pre class="terminal">
~$ <kbd>mkdir gallo</kbd>
~$ <kbd>ls</kbd>
Android   Downloads   IntelliJIDEAProjects    Sketchbook
Desktop   gallo       Pictures
</pre>

## Change Directory `cd`
Lets jump into that folder we just created.
To change the current working directory, we use the `cd` command.
<pre class="terminal">
~$ <kbd>cd gallo</kbd>
~/gallo$ 
</pre>
You will notice that the path before the `$` has changed.
You are now in a different folder. If you list the contents of the directory you
just created and opened, it won't show anything because the directory is empty.
<pre class="terminal">
~/gallo$ <kbd>ls</kbd>
~/gallo$ 
</pre>

## Create File `touch`
In your personal, folder, use the `touch` command to create an empty file.
You specify the name after the `touch` command.
<pre class="terminal">
~/lastname$ <kbd>touch some-empty-file.txt</kbd>
~/lastname$ <kbd>ls</kbd>
some-empty-file.txt
</pre>

## What to do next
1. Use the `mkdir` command to create a folder to store your *Programming By Doing* solutions.
Call the new directory `pbd-solutions`. Be sure your current working directory is your personal folder because
`mkdir` will create the new folder in the cwd by default.
2. Change directory to the `pbd-solutions` directory you just created.
3. Create a folder called `01.2`.
4. Change your directory to that new `01.2` folder and use the `touch` command to create a file 
called `EmptyFile.java`. Confirm that it exists in the `01.2` folder by using `ls`.
5. Now, move back a folder in the file-path by using `cd ..`. You should now be in the 
`pbd-solutions` directory.
6. Use `mkdir` again to create a folder *within* `pbd-solutions` called `02`.

Note: the **file-path** we just created is `~(home)/your-lastname/pbd-soutions/02`. You will need to navigate here for the next problem.