---
layout: problem
title: An Important Message
permalink: /problems/3/
section: Basics and Printing
subsection:
pbd: true
---
This exercise will show you the detailed steps you must follow to create your first Java program.

## Linux File Manager
In a previous problem, we learned how to create folders and files in the terminal.
Now, we will use the Graphical User Interface (GUI) to achieve the same thing.

On the left application panel, open `File Manager`.

You will see the contents of your home `~` directory. Your personal folder should be there.
Open your folder, then open up the `pbd-solutions` folder.

## Create a folder with the GUI
Right-click in the window and select `Create Folder...`.
A dialogue box will pop up to enter the name of the folder.
Call the folder `03`.
Double click that folder to enter it.

## Create a file with the GUI
Right-click inside the `03` folder and select `Create Document > Empty File`.
Another dialogue box will pop up asking for the name. 

Name the file `FirstProg.java`.

## Edit the file
Double-click `FirstProg.java` to open it in gedit.

Type in the code listed below in a text editor or an IDE. *It is important that you
do NEVER copy-and paste code when you are a beginner. You will learn much quicker if you type it out yourself.*

```java
public class FirstProg {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Mr. Gallo is cool!");
    }
}
```

Press `ctrl + s` or go `File > Save` to save the source-code.

## Compile and run
At this point we need to compile with `javac` and then run with `java`.

Open the terminal and navigate to the `03` folder which contains the `FirstProg.java` file.
Use `ls` to confirm that the file is where you think it is. Compile, run, and observe the output.
```
~$ cd lastname/pbd-solutions/03
~/lastname/pbd-solutions/03$ ls
FirstProg.java
~/lastname/pbd-solutions/03$ javac FirstProg.java
~/lastname/pbd-solutions/03$ java FirstProg
Mr. Gallo is cool!
~/lastname/pbd-solutions/03$
```
Chances are your program wil have errors and fail to compile. 
Here is a list of things you need to check:
- `println` is print _lowercase L_ n
- The word after class in `public class FirstProg` **must** *exactly match* the filename `FirstProg.java`.
- Every open curly bracket you have `{` needs a close-bracket `}`. Same with parentheses `()`.

The java compiler does a pretty good job at showing you where the errors are. If `javac` does encounter errors,
look for:
- the line number the error occured on
- the caret `^` pointing exactly to where the error occured on the line of code.

## What to do next
1. Change the code so that the computer displays a different message.
2. Change the code to output two messages.

