---
layout: problem
title: A Good First Program
permalink: /problems/4/
section: Basics and Printing
subsection:
pbd: true
---
Remember, you should have spent a good amount of time in
the last assignment learning how to install a text editor, run the
text editor, run a command prompt, and work with both of them. If you haven't
done that then don't go on, you'll not have a good time. This is the only
time I'll start an exercise with a warning that you should not skip or
get ahead of yourself.

1. Create a folder in your `pbd-solutions` directory called `04`.
2. Create a file within that `04` directory called `GoodFirstProgram.java`.
3. Type out the code below into the `.java` file and save it.

```java
public class GoodFirstProgram {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!");
        System.out.println("Hello Again");
        System.out.println("I like typing this.");
        System.out.println("This is fun.");
        System.out.println("Yay! Printing.");
        System.out.println("I'd much rather you 'not'.");
        System.out.println("I \"said\" do not touch this.");
    }
}
```

In the terminal, navigate to the `04` directory. Then *compile* the file.

<pre class="terminal">
~/.../pbd-solutions/04$ <kbd>javac GoodFirstProgram.java</kbd>
~/.../pbd-solutions/04$
</pre>

***Pro tip:** You can also right-click folder in File Manager and select `Open Terminal Here` and it
will navivate there for you!*

<p>If you did it right then nothing should happen.  The computer will just
skip a single blank line and display a prompt again.  If not, then you've
done something wrong. No, the computer is not wrong.</p>

<p>Then, assuming there were no errors, you should <em>run</em> the program by typing:</p>

<pre class="terminal">
~/.../pbd-solutions/04$ <kbd>java GoodFirstProgram</kbd>
</pre>

<p>If you did it right then you should see the same output I have below.  If not, then
you've done something wrong.</p>

<h2>What You Should See</h2>

<pre class="terminal">
~/.../pbd-solutions/04$ <kbd>java GoodFirstProgram</kbd>
Hello World!
Hello Again
I like typing this.
This is fun.
Yay! Printing.
I'd much rather you 'not'.
I "said" do not touch this.
~/.../pbd-solutions/04$
</pre>

<p>If your output is not exactly the same, then find out why and fix it.
If you have an error it will look like this:</p>

<pre class="terminal">
~/.../pbd-solutions/04$ <kbd>javac GoodFirstProgram.java</kbd>
GoodFirstProgram.java:6: ';' expected
                System.out.println( "Hello Again" ):
                                                   ^
1 error

~/.../pbd-solutions/04$
</pre>

<p>It's important you be able to read these since you'll be making many
of these mistakes. Even I make many of these mistakes. Let's look at this
line-by-line.</p>

- Here we ran our command in the terminal to compiler the GoodFirstProgram java file.
- The Java compiler then tells us that the file `GoodFirstProgram.java` has an error on line 6.<br>
	In this case, the specific error is that a semicolon was expected (`';' expected`)
- It then prints this line for us.
-Then it puts a `^` (caret) character to point at where it thinks the problem is.
	 Notice that there is a colon (`':'`) at the end of the line instead of a semicolon (`';'`)
- Finally, it prints out the total number of errors.


<p>Usually the specific error messages are very cryptic, but if you copy that
text into a search engine you'll find someone else who's had that error and you
can probably figure out how to fix it.</p>

<h2>What You Should Do on Your Own</h2>

<p>You will also have a few extra things you should do to make sure you understand
each exercise.  Assignments turned in <em>without</em> these things will not receive
any points.  For this exercise, try these things.</p>


1. Make your program print another line of output.
2. Put two slashes (`'//'`) at the beginning of one of the println() statements.
What did it do?  Try to find out what these characters signify.
3. Make your program print only one of the lines.


<p>From now on, I won't explain how each exercise works unless an exercise
is different for some reason. Each time there is code you should put in
a new file, the output you should see when you run the file in the command prompt,
and extra things you should do.</p>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2010 Zed A. Shaw. Used by permission.</p>

<p>(The original Python version of this assignment is part of Zed Shaw's excellent 
<a href="http://learnpythonthehardway.org/">Learn Python the Hard Way</a> course and
was translated to/reinterpreted for Java by Graham Mitchell.)</p>