---
layout: problem
title: Variables and Names
permalink: /problems/9/
section: Variables
subsection:
pbd: true
---
You can print things out with `System.out.println()` and you
can do math. The next step is to learn about variables. In programming,
a variable is nothing more than a container that allows a program to store some data. 
It is important to name variables appropriately to help other programmers (and yourself)
read the code more effectively.

<p>If you get stuck with this exercise, remember the tricks you've been
taught so far for finding differences and focusing on details:</p>

- Write a comment above each line explaining to yourself what it does in English.
- Read your `.java` file backwards.
- Read your `.java` file out loud, saying even the punctuation and symbols. 
Mention every uppercase/lowercase character.

```java 
public class VariablesAndNames
{
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
        int cars, drivers, passengers, carsNotDriven, carsDriven;
        double spaceInCar, carpoolCapacity, averagePassengersPerCar;

        cars = 100;
        spaceInCar = 4.0;
        drivers = 30;
        passengers = 90;
        carsNotDriven = cars - drivers;
        carsDriven = drivers;
        carpoolCapacity = carsDriven * spaceInCar;
        averagePassengersPerCar = passengers / carsDriven;


        System.out.println("There are " + cars + " cars available.");
        System.out.println("There are only " + drivers + " drivers available.");
        System.out.println("There will be " + carsNotDriven + " empty cars today.");
        System.out.println("We can transport " + carpoolCapacity + " people today.");
        System.out.println("We have " + passengers + " to carpool today.");
        System.out.println("We need to put about " + averagePassengersPerCar + " in each car.");
    }
}
```

<h2>What You Should See</h2>

<pre class="terminal">
~/.../pbd-solutions/08$ <kbd>javac VariablesAndNames.java</kbd>
~/.../pbd-solutions/08$ <kbd>java VariablesAndNames</kbd>
There are 100 cars available.
There are only 30 drivers available.
There will be 70 empty cars today.
We can transport 120.0 people today.
We have 90 to carpool today.
We need to put about 3.0 in each car.
~/.../pbd-solutions/08$ 
</pre>

<h2>What You Should Do on Your Own</h2>

<p>Assignments turned in <em>without</em> these things will not receive any points.</p>

1. I used 4.0 for `spaceInCar`, but is that necessary? What happens if it's just 4?
2. Remember that 4.0 is a "floating point" number. Find out what that means.
3. Write comments above each of the variable assignments.
4. Make sure you know what `=` is the assignment operator and that assigning values to variables.

<h2>Frequently-Asked Questions</h2>

**What is the difference between `=` (single-equal) and `==` (double-equal)?**

The `=` (single-equal) assigns the value on the right to a variable on the left.
The `==` (double-equal) tests if two things have the same value. You'll learn more about
comparing things in a later assignment.

**What do you mean by "read the file backwards"?**

Very simple. Imagine you have a file with 16 lines of code in
it. Start at line 16, and compare it to my file at line 16. Then
do it again for 15, and so on until you've read the whole file
backwards.

**Why *did* you use 4.0 for `spaceInCar`? Changing it to 4 doesn't seem to do anything.**

That is because `spaceInCar` was previously defined as a
`double` variable. If it had been defined as an `int`
variable, putting 4 into it *would* have made a difference.


<p>Copyright &copy; 2010 Zed A. Shaw. Used by permission.</p>

<p>(The original Python version of this assignment is part of Zed Shaw's excellent 
<a href="http://learnpythonthehardway.org/">Learn Python the Hard Way</a> course and
was translated to/reinterpreted for Java by Graham Mitchell. Further editing done by D. Gallo)</p>