---
layout: problem
title: Choose Your Own Adventure!
permalink: /problems/33/
section: If Statements 2
subsection: Nested If
pbd: true
---
Make a short "Choose Your Own Adventure" game. 
- The starting room should give the user two choices. 
- Then the second room they travel to should give them two more choices. 
- Finally the third room should give them two choices.

This means your game will have eight possible "endings". Your game will also have a total of fifteen rooms:

```
        _ R1 _
       /      \
    R2          R3
   /  \        /  \
 R4    R5    R6    R7
 /\    /\    /\    /\
E1 E2 E3 E4 E5 E6 E7 E8
```

You must use **nested** `if` statements to do this.

<pre class="terminal">
WELCOME TO MITCHELL'S TINY ADVENTURE!

You are in a creepy house!  Would you like to go "upstairs" or into the
"kitchen"?
> <kbd>kitchen</kbd>

There is a long countertop with dirty dishes everywhere.  Off to one side
there is, as you'd expect, a refrigerator. You may open the "refrigerator"
or look in a "cabinet".
> <kbd>refrigerator</kbd>

Inside the refrigerator you see food and stuff.  It looks pretty nasty.
Would you like to eat some of the food? ("yes" or "no")
> <kbd>no</kbd>

You die of starvation... eventually.
</pre>


<pre class="terminal">
WELCOME TO MITCHELL'S TINY ADVENTURE!

You are in a creepy house!  Would you like to go "upstairs" or into the
"kitchen"?
> <kbd>upstairs</kbd>

Upstairs you see a hallway.  At the end of the hallway is the master
"bedroom".  There is also a "bathroom" off the hallway.  Where would you like
to go?
> <kbd>bedroom</kbd>

You are in a plush bedroom, with expensive-looking hardwood furniture.  The
bed is unmade.  In the back of the room, the closet door is ajar.  Would you
like to open the door? ("yes" or "no")
> <kbd>no</kbd>

Well, then I guess you'll never know what was in there.  Thanks for playing,
I'm tired of making nested if statements.
</pre>