---
layout: problem
title: Gender Game
permalink: /problems/37/
section: If Statements 2
subsection: If Statements
pbd: true
---
Make a program which displays an appropriate name for a person, 
using a combination of nested ifs and compound conditions. 
Ask the user for a gender, first name, last name and age.

If the person is female and 20 or over, ask if she is married. 
If so, display "Mrs." in front of her name. If not, display "Ms." in front of her name. 
If the female is under 20, display her first and last name.

If the person is male and 20 or over, display "Mr." in front of his name. 
Otherwise, display his first and last name.

Note that asking a person if they are married should only be done if they 
are female and 20 or older, which means you will have a single if 
and else nested inside one of your if statements.

Also, did you know that with an if statement (or else), the curly b
races are optional when there is only one statement inside?

<pre class="terminal">
What is your gender (M or F): <kbd>F</kbd>
First name: <kbd>Kim</kbd>
Last name: <kbd>Kardashian</kbd>
Age: <kbd>32</kbd>

Are you married, Kim (y or n)? <kbd>y</kbd>

Then I shall call you Mrs. Kardashian.
</pre>

<pre class="terminal">
What is your gender (M or F): <kbd>F</kbd>
First name: <kbd>Marisa</kbd>
Last name: <kbd>Tomei</kbd>
Age: <kbd>48</kbd>

Are you married, Marisa (y or n)? <kbd>n</kbd>

Then I shall call you Ms. Tomei.
</pre>

Notice that in the example below, we never even ask the marriage question, because she is under 20 and so her marital status doesn't change what we call her.

<pre class="terminal">
What is your gender (M or F): <kbd>F</kbd>
First name: <kbd>Chloe</kbd>
Last name: <kbd>Moretz</kbd>
Age: <kbd>16</kbd>

Then I shall call you Chloe Moretz.
</pre>

<pre class="terminal">
What is your gender (M or F): <kbd>M</kbd>
First name: <kbd>Daniel</kbd>
Last name: <kbd>Radcliffe</kbd>
Age: <kbd>23</kbd>

Then I shall call you Mr. Radcliffe.
</pre>

<pre class="terminal">
What is your gender (M or F): <kbd>M</kbd>
First name: <kbd>Zachary</kbd>
Last name: <kbd>Gordon</kbd>
Age: <kbd>15</kbd>

Then I shall call you Zachary Gordon.
</pre>
