---
layout: problem
title: Short Adventure 2 With a Loop
permalink: /problems/63/
section: Do-While Loops
subsection: While Loops
pbd: true
---
Make another short "Choose Your Own Adventure" game. However, this time you need to use a loop so that they can freely move from room to room and back again.

There need to be at least six rooms or destinations, and at least two different ways for the game to end.

Files Needed:
- [Adventure2.java](/problem-files/63/Adventure2.java) - empty shell
- [Adventure2Example.java](/problem-files/63/Adventure2Example.java) - tiny sample game

<pre class="terminal">
MITCHELL'S TINY ADVENTURE 2!

You are in a creepy house!  Would you like to go "upstairs" or into the
"kitchen"?
> <kbd>kitchen</kbd>

There is a long countertop with dirty dishes everywhere.  Off to one side
there is, as you'd expect, a refrigerator.  You may open the "refrigerator"
or go "back".
> <kbd>back</kbd>

You are in a creepy house!  Would you like to go "upstairs" or into the
"kitchen"?
> <kbd>upstairs</kbd>

Upstairs you see a hallway.  At the end of the hallway is the master
"bedroom".  There is also a "bathroom" off the hallway.  Or, you can
go back "downstairs". Where would you like to go?
> <kbd>downstairs</kbd>

You are in a creepy house!  Would you like to go "upstairs" or into the
"kitchen"?
> <kbd>kitchen</kbd>

There is a long countertop with dirty dishes everywhere.  Off to one side
there is, as you'd expect, a refrigerator.  You may open the "refrigerator"
or go "back".
> <kbd>refrigerator</kbd>

Inside the refrigerator you see food and stuff.  It looks pretty nasty.
Would you like to eat some of the food? ("yes" or "no")
> <kbd>yes</kbd>

The food is slimy and foul, but you manage to choke it down. Your stomach
starts jumping like a frog in hot water.  You feel faint. Sliding to the
floor, the darkness closes in.

You have died.
</pre?