---
layout: problem
title: Letter at a Time
permalink: /problems/72/
section: For Loops
subsection: 
pbd: true
---
Did you know that using a loop, you can examine a String one letter at a time? 
The two key built-in String methods are `length()` and `charAt()`.

### .length()
`length()` returns an `int` representing the total number of characters in the String (including punctuation and whitespace). 
For example, if the variable `str` contains the String `"hello"`, then `str.length()` will return `5`.

### .charAt()
`charAt( int n )` returns the  nth character (char) in the String. 
The character positions are zero-based, so if the variable `str` contains the String `"Ligature"`, 
then `str.charAt(0)` will return `'L'`, and `str.charAt(4)` will return `'t'`.

Files Needed: [LetterAtATime.java](/problem-files/72/LetterAtATime.java)

## What You Should See
<pre class="terminal">
What is your message? <kbd>A man, a plan, a canal: Panama!</kbd>

Your message is 31 characters long.
The first character is at position 0 and is 'A'.
The last character is at position 30 and is '!'.

Here are all the characters, one at a time:

	0 - 'A'
	1 - ' '
	2 - 'm'
	3 - 'a'
	4 - 'n'
	5 - ','
	6 - ' '
	7 - 'a'
	8 - ' '
	9 - 'p'
	10 - 'l'
	11 - 'a'
	12 - 'n'
	13 - ','
	14 - ' '
	15 - 'a'
	16 - ' '
	17 - 'c'
	18 - 'a'
	19 - 'n'
	20 - 'a'
	21 - 'l'
	22 - ':'
	23 - ' '
	24 - 'P'
	25 - 'a'
	26 - 'n'
	27 - 'a'
	28 - 'm'
	29 - 'a'
	30 - '!'

Your message contains the letter 'a' 10 times. Isn't that interesting?
</pre>

## What You Should Do on Your Own
Assignments turned in without these things will receive half credit or less.

1. The `for` loop is defined so that it repeats as long as  `i < message.length()`. Try changing it to `<=`. What happens? Answer in a comment, then change it back.
2. If a string variable contains the value `"box"`, what is its `length()`? What is the position of the last character (the `'x'`)?
3. So, why does the `for` loop repeat as long as  `i < message.length()` instead of `i <= message.length()`?
4. Currently the code prints out the number of 'a's in the message. Change it so that it prints out the number of vowels (`a A e E i I o O u U`).
