---
layout: problem
title: Web Addresses
permalink: /problems/163.1/
section: Classes
subsection:
pbd: true
---
Classes are an easy way to create a single variable that can hold several different values. 
For example, consider the problem of storing a mailing address. 
The address has many parts, but is conceptually one unit.

Files Needed: [WebAddresses.java](/problem-files/163/WebAddresses.java)

The code provided will create a class called "Address" that contains four fields:

a field for the house number / street name (a String)
a field for the city name (a String)
a field for the state (a String)
a field for the zip code (an int)

The example code creates an **instance** of the Address class and assigns it to a variable of type `Address`.

## What You Should See
```
1313 Disneyland Dr, Anaheim, California  92802
```

## What You Should Do on Your Own
Assignments turned in without these things will receive half credit or less.

1. The code provided only creates one Address object. Change the code to create and print out two more Address objects.

## Clarifications
### Class
A class is a *general* template or prototype for an **object**. 
Classes define the general **attributes** and **behaviours** for any objects we may need in our program.

If we think about a human class, in general, every human has:
 - a name
 - a birthdate
 - weight
 - height

Humans obviously have other **attributes** but, those will do for now.

```java
class Human {
  String name;
  Date birthdate;
  double weight;
  double height;
}
```

### Object
An object is a *specific* instance of a class. You are a specific instance of the `human` class.
Every object has specific data stored in it.

We can create a *new* object by using the familiar `new` keyword in Java.

```java
Human someHuman = new Human();
```

We can the assign specific values to each of the object's attributes.

```java
someHuman.name = "Mr. Gallo";
someHuman.weight = 72.5;
someHuman.height = 172;
```

We can access these attributes the same way we set them.

```java
System.out.println("This human is " + someHuman.height + "cm tall.");
```

It is like using Arrays, except rather than using `[]` to reference a particular piece of data, 
we use "dot notation" and use a descriptive name for the data being referenced. This makes our code *much* easier to read.